If you feel very comfortable with how interest rates work
and how bonds work, then please skip the next couple
of lessons and go right to exercise number 20.
Now it's very important to discuss how interest rates work
because if interest rates rise, then we should keep
more money in the bank, and if we think that interest rates
will rise a lot in the near future,
then we need to lock in a long-term mortgage loan
so we can lock in those low interest rates today.
We will discuss mortgages and housing in the next section
after we're done with bonds here.
But we can't discuss mortgage rates or interest rates
without first understanding how interest rates work,
what makes interest rates go up and down,
and why this is crucial for you and I to understand.
It's actually fascinating.
If you understand how interest rates work,
then you will be a much better investor in bonds,
and you'll be a better investor in real estate,
and you'll be a better investor in your home,
meaning your current or future mortgage loan
to finance the purchase of your home.
And it's crucial to please understand
how interest rates work because when rates go up a lot,
people don't buy as many stocks.
Why?
Because the interest rate you get for keeping your money
in the bank is higher, and if I can make 12% interest
for example by leaving my money in the bank,
then why would I buy stocks or as many stocks
where the historical stock market return average
is about 10%?
Now over the past couple of years,
rates have been artificially and historically very low
and I promise you that your kids and your kids' kids
will ask you what it was like when rates were low
and what it was like living through
the 2008 Great Recession, which was awful.
You know, rates will be higher in the future
as you just can't have rates as low as they are today
in the long run.
And regardless of what investments we decide
to put our money into, if we get the macro environment wrong
then our micro or stock market or real estate
or investment strategies can be meaningless.
We really have to understand how the world works
from a high-level perspective.
Okay, so why we are gonna learn about
global macroeconomics right now?
Because globalization really ties us together
and the resulting investment trends can last decades.
So we really need to understand how high-level overview,
a high-level overview of how the world works
from an economic and finance perspective,
and it's absolutely fascinating.
Okay, so when I worked at Goldman Sachs
and at various investment management firms,
including hedge funds, what would happen is
during our morning meetings before the stock market opened,
our investment analysts or our portfolio managers
would often start the meetings discussing
macro interest rates impacting events
that might impact stocks or bonds.
And quite often, stocks and bonds move because of
bigger macro-related events.
Separately, when we analyze companies,
we look at how much money they make, which is called revenue
and then we deduct expenses in order to calculate
their profit, which is also referred to as earnings.
And when we analyze countries, we look at it the same way
except revenue for a country is often referred to
as gross domestic product, or GDP.
And in the next couple of lessons,
I'm gonna explain how the world of finance works
when it comes to interest rates and currency rates
and even commodities, which impacts all of our portfolios.
And so by the end of this section,
you will really understand interest rates
and government strategies to change interest rates
which is important as this can all have an impact
on the interest rates in our banks
and of our mortgages, etc.
Then at the end of this section, we will do exercises
where we're gonna learn about how to add bond
and commodity investments to your portfolio dashboard,
your portfolio management system in a very similar way
to how we added stocks to our portfolio
in exercise number 18.
I think you'll enjoy this.
Thank you.